Morning church.
Woo hoo, you gotta sound awake.
I love it.
Oh, good morning.
So yeah, I told the first service that that's weird to see up there on the screen.
It's still weird even in the second service.
Yeah.
Trying to get used to saying Pastor Brian Russell, but just in case some of you don't know who I am,
My name is Pastor Brian.
We're also lead pastor of Central Point Community Church.
Yeah.
I was reminded this morning talking to a few of my friends that this will be the last service that I preach at at this church.
Now, it won't be the last time I sing, but it'll be the last time
I get to stand up here and share the Word of God with you guys.
But you can always come over to Center Point and listen to.
Let's just put that out there.
You can always come over and visit us.
If you're new to us, if you haven't been here that much, which is totally fine, we have been traveling through the book of John.
We're going on this two year journey that the church has been taking us through.
It's been pretty awesome.
I want to recap real quick, chapter 11, and bring us into chapter 12.
So will you journey with me just for a few minutes about that?
Our story begins in the valley, not the kind of valley you drive through on a sunny day, but the kind where shadows linger in questions echo.
Valley where the stones seals a tomb where sisters Mary and Martha are distraught or hope feels late or a death
seems to have the final word.
John chapter 11 starts right in the thick of human pain, human limits and human helplessness.
And then Jesus steps into that valley, speaks into that darkness and calls Lazarus back to life.
The whole landscape shifts.
Valley trembles with resurrection, but that's not the end of the story.
There's a shockwave of that miracle ripple through the town of Bethany.
John 12 opens, not in a graveyard, but in a home.
Not with tears, but with joy.
But the story doesn't end there.
When you hear the word worship, many of us think about it in terms of what we do in here each and every Sunday.
We lift our hands and close our eyes.
We're in an emotional place crying and weeping out to God.
Some of us embrace the idea of worship as this real tangible thing that we should do.
And some of us struggle with the thought of worship.
Makes us feel uncomfortable.
There may be some of us in this room that have no idea what worship is or what it's even about.
Most of us see worship as giving our time or talent and our treasures.
Even me, week after week, jump around on stage up here like a crazy person.
I consider that part of my worship.
Let me just say this for clarity.
If you are one of those folks that feel like some of those things I mentioned are your worship.
You are not wrong.
Or if you're one of those individuals that was thinking, I don't even know what worship is or what it means.
That's okay.
Hopefully today's message will shed light in all our hearts and we will have a deeper appreciation.
When we look at John chapter 12, it leads us into a celebration.
Lazarus was just raised from the dad, Mary, and Martha are feeling good because their brother is alive.
So the three of them decide to host a dinner in Jesus' honor just to show him appreciation.
So what we're going to see in the story is Mary starts out by demonstrating one of the three things that I'm going to talk about today.
And she starts out with the first one of demonstrating that worship is going to cost us something.
Yeah, it's going to cost us something.
William Temple Arthur and Bishop wrote it this way in this quote.
He said, worship is the submission of all of our nature.
And if I could sum up the Bible's definition of worship, it would be this.
The whole life response of a person who has seen the worth of God, it is bigger than music.
It is bigger than a moment.
It is bigger than emotion.
It is the posture of the heart that says, Jesus is worthy.
So I give him myself.
John chapter 12 verse three says it well.
Says here a dinner was given in Jesus' honor.
Martha served while Lazarus was among those reclining at the table with him.
And here's the part.
It says, then Mary took a pint of nard, an expensive perfume.
She poured it out on Jesus' feet and wiped his feet with her hair.
What makes that moment so significant?
what makes that perfume so significant, so important.
Because in those days, perfume was a commodity.
People just didn't have it.
Most of the families during those times, they didn't own anything of value.
So using that perfume, a lot of people thought that was a waste.
It could have been considered financial security for most people.
The perfume was such a high value.
It represented wealth, security status,
and future stability to some.
Mary broke that jar.
She wasn't just pouring out fragrance.
She was pouring out something that carried deep economic culture on emotional weight.
It's almost like you guys.
Give it up your savings account or your retirement or your pension or even your week to week paycheck.
That's how weighty that is.
Mary knew one truth.
That one truth is what I want us to understand today.
Three words.
Jesus is worthy.
He's worthy of all the glory.
He's worthy of all the honor.
He's worthy of all the praise.
Jesus is worthy.
So I was in 96 and eight points this out very well.
This is a scribe to the Lord.
Here it is.
The glory due to
his name, bring an offering and come into his courts.
Paul said it well on Philippians 3, 7 and 8, it says, but whatever gains to me, I now consider loss for the sake of Christ.
What is more, I consider everything a loss because of, here it is, the surpassing worth of knowing Christ.
I love that.
Paul said it doesn't matter.
I give it all up.
for what?
To know Christ.
So up to this point, Mary had a clear understanding of Jesus's work, who Jesus was, and that's why it wasn't hard or difficult for her to sacrifice to her best.
So question for you as you ponder, do you know who Jesus is?
As you sit in your seat and you listen to me, blah, blah, blah,
Do you know who Jesus is?
Is your life so heavy and things going on?
So erratic.
You don't know who God is.
He knows you.
Just in case you were wondering.
He does.
He knows who you are.
Do you know him beyond singing to him on Sunday?
Do you know him beyond the difficult times?
Do you know him beyond Easter and Christmas?
Do you know him in your high school?
Do you know him in your college?
Do you know him as husband and wife?
Do you know him in your single life?
Do you know him?
I want you to think about that the entire time.
Do I know who God is?
Most of us in this room would probably say yes.
I do know who he is.
But do you know him beyond what I would classify as the surface?
And it's okay if you don't.
I want to make sure you know this about the message.
That this message is not about condemnation, but it is more about examination.
I want us to examine our lives.
My hope is that those that are new to the faith and the ones that have been at this for a long time, grass, the full totality of who God is and His wordiness because He is worthy.
I'm going to keep saying that.
He is.
Knowing Jesus beyond the surface,
It's about moving from these few things.
The first one is from information to intimacy.
What's that mean?
Information invites you, but intimacy involves you.
It's two people.
It's where Jesus shifts from being the savior to my savior.
I would ask you to raise your hand and tell me if he's your savior, but I won't do that.
He's mine though.
I will say that.
He is my savior.
Intimacy is personal.
It makes us say things like he is mine and I am his.
Knowing Jesus beyond the surface is moving from facts to fellowship.
What's that mean?
Taking information and allowing it to shape who you are and to transform your life.
See, facts just tell you who Jesus is.
But fellowship allows you to experience Him and who He is.
Knowing Jesus beyond the surface,
is moving from proximity to true encounter.
You all came in this room one way.
My hope is that you encounter God and you leave here a different way.
Each and every one of us.
It's the difference between standing in the crowd and sitting at his feet.
It means knowing his heart, not just his miracles.
It means knowing his worth, not just his works.
It means knowing his voice, not just his name.
It means knowing his sacrifice, not just his strength.
Ephesians 5 and 2 points out who Jesus is also well.
It says, walk in the way of love, just as Christ loved us, and gave up himself for us.
as a fragrant offering, the sacrifice to God that points out who Jesus is, oh, so well.
To know Jesus is to know who he truly is, God in the flesh, the resurrection in the life, the one worthy of worship, and listen to this.
To know Jesus is to know the deepest realities of who he is, what he gives, not just facts about him,
but the very things that shape the life of worship, trust, and transformation.
The Bible reveals him in John 14 and 6 in this way.
If you don't know what you will, as soon as I say the first word, he is the way, the truth, and the life.
Yeah, I pack our Arthur and theologian of a book called Knowing God.
I love this quote.
Love it.
It says, who were we made for or what were we made for to know God?
What aim should we have in life to know God?
What is the best thing in life to know God?
We can't get any more simple than that.
So I'm going to ask you again, do you know God?
And on many of us in this room, including myself, we wrestle with that question week after week, day after day.
There are times that I come in here on Sunday and I sit in that seat, and I wrestle with that question.
Do I know God?
There's always higher heights, deeper deaths in God.
Every day there's more to discover about him.
Do you know him?
It's okay if you don't.
I just want you to get to know him.
To know God is to step into a relationship that changes the way you see everything.
Your pain, your past, your priorities, your people, and your purpose.
That hit me hard this week.
It's not just believing he exists.
It's learning his heart, trusting his ways and letting his voice shape your choices.
To know God has to realize you're not alone.
You're not forgotten in the struggle.
You are not defined by your failures.
You're not left to figure out life on your own.
It's discovering that the God who raises the dead also restores the broken.
I'll let you clap.
He carries the weary.
He confronts what's killing you and calls you into a life that actually looks like freedom.
He who the sun sets free is free indeed.
To know God is to know the one who meets you where you are.
But never leaves you there.
Somebody said, why are you starting a center point community church?
I just listed all the reasons why.
Because we want people to know God.
We want people to experience God.
We want every heart and every home to know who Jesus is.
Mary knew his identity.
She knew he was the Messiah.
She knew he was Lord.
That's why her worship was costly.
Mary didn't pour out oil.
Because she was emotional, she poured it out because she saw his worth.
Mary gave up what was precious because she knew that he would give his precious life for us.
We know who God is and we know God's worth.
It doesn't matter what it costs.
And that's where we press in a little bit deeper.
Because worship just doesn't cost.
It does something else.
It reveals.
It reveals what's going on inside of us.
Worship is never just about what's in your hands, but it's also about what's in your heart.
John 12, verse three and four, it shows us the moment that Mary pours the perfume on Jesus's feet, it created attention with the other people that were around.
He has to fragrance field the room,
but also exposes other emotions.
One of those things is it shows us how Mary felt.
She felt a sense of love, gratitude, revelation, and surrender.
But here are the other things that was happening in that room.
Verse five.
Judas says, why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor?
It was worth a year's wages.
Yeah, Judas was in the room and I'm going to be the first one to tell you.
I'm not a fan of Judas for many reasons at all.
I have to imagine that if I was there, I'm not a violent person, but I am a guy that will speak my mind.
And I have to imagine being in the room when Judas not only will he betray Jesus, but in this moment,
Judas is running his mouth and I have to think that if I was in the room, what would I say to Judas?
Dude, you need to relax.
You need to stop running your mouth.
You need to chill out.
As a matter of fact, why don't you just get up and leave?
But guess what?
I also find myself in Judas.
Yeah, I've had many moments to where I responded just like that, to where I questioned God.
many moments.
Yeah, I was a little upset at Judas, but God also said, there's a little bit of you in there.
So make sure you recognize that.
I want you guys to recognize that as well, because there may be some more Judas in the room that question God, question the things that's happening.
Worship has a way of revealing those things.
It does.
It reveals our motives.
It reveals those things that we treasure most.
It reveals whether you and I see Jesus as worthy.
It reveals our willingness to surrender.
Surrender what?
Our pride, our control, our money,
It reveals whether we are spectators or participants.
There are many times I come in here when I don't have to sing and I have to battle between being a spectator or participant because I got something going on inside of me.
Yep, the guy that leads you in worship sometimes struggle with that.
Now you may see me up here up front sometimes jumping around.
but there's still a battle going on inside.
Worship, definite reveals what's in our heart.
And we see that in Judas.
One of Jesus' 12 disciples.
Judas also demonstrates this to us.
I think that it's super powerful.
Catch this, please.
He demonstrates that you can walk with Jesus and still not know him.
He can walk with Jesus and still not know him.
He demonstrates that you can be near to Jesus and still not see his words.
You can speak religious words and still have a divided heart.
Yep.
That's been my address a lot.
I have to find myself.
I think the challenge for us is to wrestle with this question that I'm going to
I'm going to give you.
When God asks you for something costly, do we respond like Mary with surrender or like Judas with resistance?
Please think about that.
I had to answer that question probably two years ago.
When I sat at a lunch table with Chad, he said, I want to start a church.
And I was like, yeah, I got you.
I'll support that.
I'll sing on the worship team and I'll go over and do serve and do whatever I need to do over there.
He said, nope.
I had to wrestle with that.
Because at 53, I didn't want to plant a church.
I wanted to travel.
We just sent our last kid off to college.
I did not want to do this, you guys.
I didn't.
I was having a Judas moment.
I was being completely selfish.
And I walked away from that conversation, and I didn't give Chad an answer.
I don't know the timeline it took for me to come to myself.
But I know where I was when it happened.
I was on my way to work, shared a real lumber.
7 o'clock in the morning, and the Holy Spirit came over me with so much love and so much grace.
And it said to me, remember the promise you made to me that you would serve me.
No matter what, I had to let go of my Judas moment.
And I had to surrender to God all of what He had already given me.
I don't want to do this, but here I am two years later saying yes to God.
I got to ask, what are you holding on to?
What do you need to surrender to God?
That's tough.
That's tough for us.
Because here's the reality.
We all have things in our lives that we hold on to.
There are things that we have a deaf group on.
There are things that, for whatever reason, we just don't want to give them up.
We have said to God, Lord, I surrender all to you while knowing we're not going to give those things up.
And like Judas, we talk a good game while we hide our true motives.
And these two scriptures point that out very well.
Luke 6 and 45 says, a good man brings good things out of the good stored up in his heart.
And an evil man brings evil things out of the evil stored up in his heart for what the mouth speaks, for the mouth speaks what the heart is full of.
I love the scripture off of us offers us two tensions.
if you're a good person, or if you're an evil person.
Guess who gets to decide?
You do.
You get to choose.
Our scripture is not forcing us, it gives us an option.
I choose to be a good person.
Matthew 6 and 21 says, where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
I treasure traveling.
I treasured my wife and I going to just do whatever we felt like doing.
We put in our time.
We raised all of our children.
They're all grown and gone.
This is our time to do what we want to do.
I treasured that.
But then God reminded me in my yes.
He said, you can still do those things and serve me at the same time.
So it's not like we're giving it up.
She can do both.
Remember Mary, treasure Jesus, but you just treasure money, but I want to remind us that Jesus, he treasures us.
So here's another question for you.
What is your worship revealing about the part of your heart that Jesus wants to heal, change, or claim?
What is your worship revealing about the part of your heart
that Jesus wants to heal, change, or claim.
Not only does worship cost and worship reveal, but it also does this last thing, and I think this is my favorite point out of all three, it creates.
When we examine Mary's worship in verse three, where it says in the house was filled with the fragrance of perfume, we realize that it doesn't end with fragrance.
Because what is fragrant to do, it produces fruit.
It creates something in the atmosphere, in the community, in the spiritual realm.
Worship, listen to this.
Worship is never passive.
It always generates movement, always.
See, passive worship is worship without engagement, the kind of worship where the body is present, but the heart is not.
It's the opposite of Mary.
in John 12, passive worship is Judas in the same room, hearing the same words, seeing the same Jesus, but unmoved, untouched and unchanged.
Passive worship is participation without surrender.
Listen to me, I wanna make sure that I'm clear.
This message is not about condemnation, but it's about examination.
I want us to examine the motives in our heart.
Worship, passive worship shows up physically, but it stays closed internally.
Passive worship sings the song, but it doesn't yield the heart.
It attends the service, but never offers self.
Passive worship says, I'm here, but I'm not going to give anything.
I'm just going to check a box for this week.
Passive worship is worship as a habit, not worship as a response.
It's standing, clapping, listening, but the heart stays untouched.
Passive worship is critique instead of devotion.
Hopefully I didn't hurt anybody on that.
I've been a part of a lot of churches that people just complain about the music being too loud.
The coffee wasn't hot enough.
We don't do that here though.
So put that out there.
We don't do that here.
Extravagan worship creates a testimony that people just can't ignore.
Striving and worship creates a testimony people can't ignore because it puts the work of Jesus on a display that is visible, undeniable and disruptive.
John 9 and 12 points that out.
This is Mary pouring out the devotion and Lazarus resurrected life became kind of a spiritual megaphone that echoes far beyond the walls of that house.
What's your spiritual megaphone?
How loud is it?
Can people hear it?
When your megaphone goes off, does it draw crowds?
When your megaphone goes off, does it make people wonder?
Does it draw people in?
When your worship is real, please hear this.
It becomes visible.
When your worship is real, it becomes visible.
Why does it become visible?
Because your life has changed.
People see your transformed life because your worship is visible.
When worship is visible, you give when it's uncomfortable without expectation.
Why?
Because God is worthy.
Your worship becomes visible.
You walk around with this unexpected joy, this unexplainable peace when your worship is visible.
Your worship creates a curiosity in others.
Did you know that?
When I'm up here jumping around on stage,
Acting like a crazy man.
You can admit it.
Yes, I do.
My hope is that you guys are wondering why I worship the way that I worship.
And I'll tell you because God is real to me.
God is worthy to me.
And I have a testimony to share with you as to why.
Your worship creates a confrontation with darkness.
It does.
The chief priest wanted to kill Lazarus because he was too loud.
Worship always threatens the powers that prefer silence, control, and spiritual apathy.
When we confront darkness, we do what Chad told us last week
And we say these few words, not on my watch.
Your worship, your worship creates a movement toward Jesus.
The Bible says many believe because of Lazarus.
Many believe because of him.
His life became a bridge.
Your life is a bridge.
Mary's life became a catalyst.
Your life is a catalyst.
Worship doesn't just end in the worship center.
It doesn't just end in this room.
Your worship is carried
from the doors to the parking lot, to Dunlap, to Chilla Coffee, to East Peoria.
Your worship is carried to the East Bluff where we are planting a new church.
If you're having a worship cost, you guys, it reveals and it creates all three of those.
So this week, do me a favor.
Don't just remember what Jesus brought you out of, show it.
Let your choices, your conversations and your generosity say he is worth
Find one way this week to sow Jesus, and He matters to you.
One choice, one moment, one act of love, your worship, your extravagant worship.
We're gonna pray, and after that, we're gonna sing another song where you join us with your extravagant worship.
Heavenly Father, we thank you.
Thank you for your word.
Father, we ask that it would go out and not return void.
We ask Father that we would find ourselves in that word and we would be forever changed.
And when we left this place, we would be different.
Now Father, as we sing songs of worship, songs of Zion to your name,
praying hope that our worship is pleasing in your sight.
And we lift every voice and we sing to the God of glory.
Why?
Because you are worthy in Jesus name.
Amen.
Come on, let's stand.